Manufacturing Alpha 

Manufacturing Alpha is designed to automate the day to day administrative operations of a typical custom manufacturing department. The application has been created using a Flask / Python back end, and HTML, CSS and Javascript front end, incorporating the bootstrap UI library for styling.

Table of contents

    Introduction
    Features
    Technologies Used
    Setup
    Project status

Introduction

The application allows an admin user to set up user accounts for a team of emloyees in various operative functions, and enter a catalogue of work orders. The work orders contain various informative details and allow users to progress thier completion by selecting certain flags. 
Users may optionally attach documentations specific to work order operations and material requirements. Work order history is tracked at certain operations to allow managment to track KPI and assist with planning. 

Inspiration

Much of the inspiration behind this implementation comes from many years of experience working in manufacturing and operations environemnt, across various CRMS and ERPs. Due to the nature of small business, it is often difficult to adapt processes to an ERP and vice versa, leaving 
behind a situation of inefficient workflow and difficulty in ahcieving the ultimate goal of fast turn around times.   

From the perspective of self-development, I wanted to implement all the knowledge learnt as part of Unit 2 at General assembly. Along with this, I attempted to incorporate various other learnings from the past few weeks. This led to a list of game/design requirements as per below.

    Fully functional catalogue of work order data persistantly stored in a back end. 
    Ability for multiple users to view, edit and update data. 
    Secure login environment, routes and access levels 
    Develop familiarity of OOP knowledge, pricipals, trying to model the system behaviour as set of services that incorporate objects to connect to the database. 
    Efficient use of system resources e.g. minimsing database calls, executing multiple lines and retrieve/process data quickly. Minimize loading and refreshing times
    Build basic API end points to serve static pages that can fetch data. 
    Design the code such that it can scale easily and features can be implemented post launch (e.g. addition of future models e.g. material, purchasing, tasks, etc)

Challenges

    Building a system to access datatbase for all CRUD operations, with multiple tables and different cases, proved to be simple at first, however, when questions around efficiency, latency, optimisations began to arrise,
    refactoring the code base was an extremely time consuming process
    Creating API end points with a standardised set of data required quite a lot of homework e.g. jsonify, encoding of files etc, data structures etc. 

Features

Soccer wordle uses a different set of rules as compared to the original wordle games. Due to the difficulty of the game, the ruleset was modified to accept any string of letters as this constitutes a fair guess. The base game will alter users to correct letters and partially correct letters. Upon successfull guess of the player name, the game is reset.

    Fully functional Wordle game that generates a random player name from a database of over 15,000 profiles.
    Friendly on every monitor size from low-budget mobiles to ultra-wide monitors. Dynamic scaling to ensure readibility and functionality.
    Fully functional buttons as well as keyboard input accepted.
    Pop up instructions on first site load. Pop up help available on click of help button.
    Settings pop up, which allows for the user to change difficulities (number of attempts)
    Points and Gem based scoring systems which rewards guessing correct letters, and correct words, with bonuses awarded for timely completion
    Resetable and allows users to give up
    Upon win/loss/give up, a brief player information summary is presented for educational purposes
    Local storage of user profile, which includes default name, points and gems balance
    Functionality to add monetisation (i.e. purchase of points which can be redeemed for hints)

Technologies Used

    HTML5 - Used as a backbone to the website. This is an mandatory requirement for webpages. Many Bootstrap templates, sections, headers, footers have been organised using HTML rather than generated by Javascript (JS).

    CSS - Vanilla CSS was used during the initial construction of the site, but later phased out to Bootstrap. The main grid for guess' continues to use vanilla CSS grid and styling.

    Bootstrap 5.0 - The primary purpose of was to enable the use of Modal forms (pop up windows). As a mobile first approach was used, a smaller screen size limited space available on the page, hence the use of Modals would allow for extra menu options such as hints, settings, displays etc. Due to the overwhelingmly positive impact of bootstrap on the layout and visual appear, over time, almost the entire application was converterd to use modal templates over vanilla CSS.

    Javascript/ES6 was used for dynamic functionality of the site. Various functions within JS are impleneted,
        Variables, loops, functions
        Async data import
            FIFA23 database used to extract player information to XML file,
            Amending all diacritics to standard english letters via excel VBA.
            Converting XLSM file to JSON file format
            Hosted it onto gitHub
            Called into soccerWordle by function to import on start up.
        Local storage object was used to store user profiles
        Function used to create profile "objects".
        Timer function to display stopwatch, as well as implement feature to add gems on "quick" wins.

Setup

Option 1 - Easiest

The application runs directly from the link https://nikhilmahashabde.github.io/Football-Wordle/ All relevant data and game file are hosted on gitHub. All personal files and profiles are specific to the user's browser.

Option 2 -

https://github.com/NikhilMahashabde/Football-Wordle

Using the above link, the files can be downloaded to your local machine. Access to the internet is still required to access player Data. Start the game using index.html
Project status

Current version 2.2
Completed in Full

    Database filtering
    Dynamic array/letter generation
    Full functional game logic
    Settings menu
    Help menu
    Help player card
    Win/Loss player card pop up
    Timer 1 - Pop up instruction panel on startup
    Timer 2 - Show current time
    Local storage of Score
    win or lose condition - show player name, picture,
    close box
    CSS styling and page layout
    Keyboard layout alignment
    Dynamic scaling for bigger screens

Partially complete

    how to play instructions
    User profile generator
    User profile object - add gems
    local storage of stats

To add

    Optional monetisation
    Statistics















To do

Dash board entry site
work order notes
work orders statues

# Project 2 manufac alpha static site

Purpose - just build a really solid app that does everything, is
secure, 
fast,
efficient 

and allows me to learn things
JWT
Bootstrap extended. 
OOP - class and service setup

**routes**


/workorders/api
/workorders/api/<id>

[ work order update -> ]

/forms/users/update
- update all user data and passwords - admin only. 04/05

**features**
** work order page **

- main WO page to show all WOs
- edit WO -> take you to WO specific page
- add flags to WOs

- multiinput to database or single input based on data dump going in
- api for datacalls on front end. 
- working check boxes. 
- 


**LOGIN AND SECURITY **
- login with session token
- registration page for new users (this really shouldnt exist, this is not an app made for public, but has been included for sake of project)
- [tba] - account password reset. 
- administrator page
  - create new user (similair to new user registration but can set up as admin user)
  - delete existing user
  - update all user info as per table
    - change password is here

- secure routing for public, private, and admin 

[styling]
bootstrap has been used yet again
- update UIs for registration
- log in UI
- main work order page UI
- 



**wish list - TBA**

split app into micro service architecture - main app is just for security service
pull in work order data from external APi 

    - login with session token
    - if logged in, send back jwt
    - send back site to private home page route
    - site includes js 
    - js to call json data with jwt header

    - site will check jwt token against main site to authenticate token 

pull in requsitions from external API




# README

This is the [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) [quick start](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/quickstart/#a-minimal-application) example for [Render](https://render.com).

The app in this repo is deployed at [https://flask.onrender.com](https://flask.onrender.com).

## Deployment

Follow the guide at https://render.com/docs/deploy-flask.
